

# Kustomize

Kustomize is a tool that introduces a template-free way to customize application configuration that simplifies the use of off-the-shelf applications. It's available as a stand alone utility and is built into kubectl through `kubectl apply -k`. For additional details read more at [kustomize.io](https://kustomize.io/).


In this lab, you will work through some of the core concepts of Kustomize and learn how it can be used to help manage variations in applications and environments in your software delivery platform.


## Objectives

- Combine a base YAML file with an overlay
- Use common types: Images, Namespaces, Labels
- Apply multiple overlays to create an application


## Prerequisites

This lab assumes you have already cloned the main repository and starts in the `delivery-platform/` subfolder. 

Copy and execute the following commands in your terminal to set your project and local environment variables


```bash
gcloud config set project {{project-id}}
source ./env.sh
```


To demonstrate the kustomize features, you will work out of a temporary directory specifically for this lab.

Begin by changing to the work directory and creating the lab folder


```shell
mkdir $WORK_DIR/kustomize-lab
cd $WORK_DIR/kustomize-lab
cloudshell workspace .
```


Click **Next** to proceed.


## Kustomize Basics

One of the core features of Kustomize is its ability to overlay multiple file configurations. This allows you to manage a base set of resources and add overlays to configure the specific variations you may see between apps and environments.

Rather than calling `kubectl apply` directly on your k8s manifests, you would first run `kustomize build` to render or “hydrate” your manifests with the variations you’ve included from kustomize. 

The `kustomize` command looks for a file called `kustomization.yaml` as the primary configuration. 

To start, you will create a folder to hold your base configuration files


```shell
mkdir -p chat-app/base
```


Create a simple `deployment.yaml` in the base folder 

Copy and execute the following commands in your terminal


```yaml
cat <<EOF > chat-app/base/deployment.yaml
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: apps/v1
metadata:
  name: app
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      name: chat-app
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: chat-app
        image: chat-app-image
EOF
```


Now create a `kustomization.yaml` file that references the `deployment.yaml` as the base resources where the variations will be applied. 

Create the base `kustomization.yaml`

Copy and execute the following commands in your terminal

```yaml
cat <<EOF > chat-app/base/kustomization.yaml
bases:
  - deployment.yaml
EOF
```


Running the kustomize command on the base folder outputs the deployment YAML files with no changes, which is expected since you haven’t included any variations yet.


```shell
kustomize build chat-app/base
```


Click **Next** to proceed.


## Common Overlays: Images, Namespaces, Labels

Images, namespaces and labels are very commonly customized for each application and environment. Since they are commonly changed, Kustomize lets you declare them directly in the `kustomize.yaml`, eliminating the need to create many patches for these common scenarios.

This technique is often used to create a specific instance of a template. One base set of resources can now be used for multiple implementations by simply changing the name and its namespace. 

In this example, you will add a namespace, name prefix and add some labels to your `kustomization.yaml`.

Update the `kustomization.yaml` file to include common labels and namespaces.

Copy and execute the following commands in your terminal

```yaml
cat <<EOF > chat-app/base/kustomization.yaml
bases:
  - deployment.yaml

namespace: my-namespace
nameprefix: my-
commonLabels:
  app: my-app

EOF
```


Executing the build at this point shows that the resulting YAML file now contains the namespace, labels and prefixed names in both the service and deployment definitions.


```shell
kustomize build chat-app/base
```


Note how the output contains labels and namespaces that are not in the deployment YAML file. Note also how the name was changed from `chat-app` to `my-chat-app`

(Output do not copy)


<pre>
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    app: my-app
  name: my-chat-app
  namespace: my-namespace
</pre>


Click **Next** to proceed.


## Patches and Overlays

Kustomize also provides the ability to apply patches that overlay the base resources. This technique is often used to provide variability between applications and environments. 

In this step, you will create environment variations for a single application that use the same base resources. 

Start by creating folders for the different environments


```shell
mkdir -p chat-app/dev
mkdir -p chat-app/prod
```


Notice that the patches below do not contain the container image name. That value is provided in the base/deployment.yaml you created in the previous step. These patches do however contain unique environment variables for dev and prod. 

Write the patches with the following command


```yaml
cat <<EOF > chat-app/dev/deployment.yaml
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: apps/v1
metadata:
  name: app
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: chat-app
        env:
        - name: ENVIRONMENT
          value: dev
EOF
```


Now do the same for prod


```yaml
cat <<EOF > chat-app/prod/deployment.yaml
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: apps/v1
metadata:
  name: app
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: chat-app
        env:
        - name: ENVIRONMENT
          value: prod
EOF
```


Now implement the kustomize YAML files for each directory. 

First, rewrite the base customization.yaml, remove the namespace and name prefix as this is just the base config with no variation. Those fields will be moved to the environment files in just a moment. 

Rewrite the `base/kustomization.yaml `file

Copy and execute the following commands in your terminal

```yaml
cat <<EOF > chat-app/base/kustomization.yaml
bases:
  - deployment.yaml

commonLabels:
  app: chat-app

EOF
```


Now implement the variations for dev and prod. Note the addition now of the `patches:` section of the file. This indicates that kustomize should overlay those files on top of the base resources. 

Create the `dev/kustomization.yaml `file

Copy and execute the following commands in your terminal

```yaml
cat <<EOF > chat-app/dev/kustomization.yaml
bases:
- ../base

namespace: dev
nameprefix: dev-
commonLabels:
  env: dev


patches:
- deployment.yaml
EOF
```


Now create the `prod/kustomization.yaml `file

Copy and execute the following commands in your terminal

```yaml
cat <<EOF > chat-app/prod/kustomization.yaml
bases:
- ../base

namespace: prod
nameprefix: prod-
commonLabels:
  env: prod

patches:
- deployment.yaml
EOF
```


With the base and environment files created, you can execute the kustomize process to patch the base files.

Run the following command to see the merged result.


```bash
kustomize build chat-app/dev
```


Note the output contains merged results such as labels from base and dev configurations as well as the container image name from the base and the environment variable from the dev folders. 

Click **Next** to proceed.


## Multiple layers of overlays

Many organizations have a team that helps support the app teams and manage the platform. Frequently these teams will want to include specific details that are to be included in all apps across all environments, such as a logging agent.  

In this example, you will create a `shared-kustomize` folder and resources which will be included in all applications regardless of which environment they’re deployed. 

Start by creating the folder


```shell
mkdir shared-kustomize
```


Create a simple `deployment.yaml` in the base folder

Copy and execute the following commands in your terminal

```yaml
cat <<EOF > shared-kustomize/deployment.yaml
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: apps/v1
metadata:
  name: app
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: logging-agent
        image: logging-agent-image
EOF
```


Now create a `kustomization.yaml` file that references the `deployment.yaml` as the base resources where the variations will be applied. 

Create the base `kustomization.yaml`

Copy and execute the following commands in your terminal

```yaml
cat <<EOF > shared-kustomize/kustomization.yaml
bases:
  - deployment.yaml
EOF
```


Since you want the `shared-kustomize` folder to be the base for all your applications, you will need to update your `chat-app/base/kustomization.yaml` to use `shared-kustomize` as the base. Then patch its own deployment.yaml on top. The environment folders will then patch again on top of that. 

Copy and execute the following commands in your terminal

```yaml
cat <<EOF > chat-app/base/kustomization.yaml
bases:
  - ../../shared-kustomize

commonLabels:
  app: chat-app

patches:
- deployment.yaml

EOF
```


Run the following command to see the merged result.


```shell
kustomize build chat-app/dev
```


Note the output contains merged results from the app base, the app environment, and the shared-kustomize folders. Specifically, you can see in the containers section values from all three locations.

(output do not copy)
<pre>
    containers:
          - env:
            - name: ENVIRONMENT
              value: dev
            name: chat-app
          - image: image
            name: app
          - image: logging-agent-image
            name: logging-agent
</pre>

Click **Next** to proceed.


## Congratulations !!

<walkthrough-conclusion-trophy></walkthrough-conclusion-trophy>


You've reached the end of this lab. 

Close any editor tabs you still have open and change back to the main lab directory with the following commands. 


```bash
cd $BASE_DIR
cloudshell workspace .
```


Next your instructor will discuss the concepts related to the next section

After the lecture, run the following command to launch the next lab.


```bash
teachme "${BASE_DIR}/docs/workshop/2.1-app-onboarding.md"
```

