# App Onboarding

Creating a new application often includes more than loading a language's example "hello world" app and start coding. 

In reality, the process invariably includes at least a minimal set of core tasks such as:

* Creating a new app repository for the developers.
* Pulling in a template from an approved list of base applications.
* Setting up foundational build and deploy mechanics.
* Setting up various other ancillary elements like registering with enterprise change management systems. 

Mature organizations implement automation processes that enable developers to self-serve and minimize platform administrator engagement. 

This lab examines patterns for automating the creation of a new application and reviews an automation script that can be modified and extended to meet your custom needs. 

## Objectives

- Review Base Repos
- Review app-create script
- Create and review a new application


Click **Start** to begin the lab. 

## Prerequisites 

This lab assumes you have already cloned the main repository and are starting in the `delivery-platform/` folder. 

This lab does not require infrastructure to be fully provisioned.



<walkthrough-project-setup></walkthrough-project-setup>

Execute the following command to set your project and local environment variables

```bash
gcloud config set project {{project-id}}
source ./env.sh

```

Click **Next** to continue. 


## Base Repositories

The app onboarding process included in this workshop performs a few key functions, one of which is to create a new repository from a template. 

As part of the provisioning process starter repos from this workshop were copied to your remote git provider for use throughout the lessons. This lab will utilize these repos in the onboarding process.

Review the local version of the app templates repo in the `resources/repos/app-templates` directory

<walkthrough-editor-open-file filePath="resources/repos/README.md">
Click here to locate the folder</walkthrough-editor-open-file>

Take note of the folder names used for each of the template types. These names are used to indicate which template should be used for the new application. 

Next to the `app-templates` folder is a folder called `shared-kustomize`. This directory contains base kustomize overlays that will be merged with the app configs as part of the hydration step in the pipeline. Review the contents of that folder and note that the subfolder names match those of the app-template directory. 

To customize or add additional templates, add the appropriate folders to both of these directories. 

The third folder in this directory, named `cluster-config` is a sample implementation of a repo used by `Anthos Config Manager`, which you'll use later in this lab. This repo will contain the full rendered manifests to be applied to the various clusters. 

## App Creation Script

The script utilized in this workshop was created to not only facilitate app onboarding within this workshop but also to make the patterns visible and customizable. 

While you can utilize the example script as is, it's assumed your organization will have different onboarding needs and thus it will need to be modified. 

Rather than provide a locked-down opinionated binary, this script is written as an accessible bash script to inform and inspire your own implementation. 

<walkthrough-editor-open-file filePath="scripts/app.sh">
Review the `scripts/app.sh` file</walkthrough-editor-open-file>

The usage of this script is simply `app.sh create new_app_name template_to_use`. The create function performs the following steps:

- Clones down templates repo
- Modify template placeholders with actual values (i.e. the actual app name)
- Creates new remote repo in your git provider to hold the app instance
- Configures deployment targets for the various environments
- Configures base software delivery pipeline 

Variations and customizations you may choose to implement within your organization might include registering the app in a CMDB, updating ingress or load balancer entries, incorporating a user interface for developer self-service, etc.



## Create & Review new application

In this step, you will create a new instance of an app using the provided app creation script that will be used throughout the remainder of the workshop. 

First, set some variables, including the name of the app to be created.

```bash
export APP_NAME=hello-web

```


Next execute the app create function to instantiate the app

```bash
./scripts/app.sh create ${APP_NAME} golang
```

## Review your new app

The onboarding process created a variety of resources and updated configurations related to your new application instance. Take a moment to review what the script did. 

- Review your new app in your git provider
- Review the entry in the config repo
- Review the webhook in the app repo
- Review the trigger in Cloud Build


*Review your new app in your git provider*

Head over to [github.com](https://github.com) for your username. Under your repositories  locate the newly created `hello-web` repository.

Review the configuration file such as `skaffold.yaml` or `k8s/dev/deployment.yaml` and note that the onboarding script inserted the unique app name throughout. 

*Review the entry in the config repo*
Again in [github.com](https://github.com) for your username. Under your repositories  locate the `mcd-cluster-config` repo. This base repository was created during the provisioning process, but has just been updated to include a `hello-web` namespace in the dev stage and prod folders. 


*Review the webhook in the app repo*
A webhook was added to the `hello-web` application repo in github for your new app. 

Back on [github.com](https://github.com) for your username, under your repositories  locate the newly created `hello-web` repository. Then on settings page select webhooks from the left nav. 

Review the webhook that was added to the repository.

*Review the trigger in Cloud Build*

The webhook in the github repo makes a call out to Cloud Build to execute the build and deploy processes. 

Review the Cloud Build trigger by visiting the [Cloud Build Triggers page](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-build/triggers) in the Google Cloud console. 

## Congratulations !!

<walkthrough-conclusion-trophy></walkthrough-conclusion-trophy>


You've reached the end of this lab


After the next lecture, run the following command to launch the next lab.

```bash
teachme "${BASE_DIR}/docs/workshop/2.2-develop.md"
```

