
# App Development

In this lab, you will walk through a typical developer workflow use case that highlights local development integrations available within Cloud Code.


## Objectives


*   Introduce Cloud Code Plugins
*   Introduce skaffold for pipeline abstraction
*   Utilize local and remote clusters
*   Utilize hot reloading
*   Debug apps on remote GKE realtime


## Prerequisites

This lab assumes you have already cloned the main repository and are starting in the `delivery-platform/` folder.

Next, select the project you are using for the lab.

<walkthrough-project-setup></walkthrough-project-setup>

Execute the following command to set your project and local environment variables.


```bash
gcloud config set project {{project-id}}
source ./env.sh
export APP_NAME=hello-web
```



## Clone the repositories

In a previous lab, you created a new application for use by the development team. In practice, a dev team member would trigger the script through a UI or other process. Once the app is created, the developer and the rest of their team would need to clone the remote repo first before making changes.

In practice, some organizations may choose to include kustomize overlays through HTTP references rather than local references to the files.

In this workshop, the kustomize overlays are included as local files for clarity and discussion. So you'll be cloning that repo as well.  

Clone the application and kustomize repositories.


```bash
git clone -b main $GIT_BASE_URL/${APP_NAME} $WORK_DIR/${APP_NAME}
git clone -b main $GIT_BASE_URL/${SHARED_KUSTOMIZE_REPO} $WORK_DIR/kustomize-base
```


Switch your editor's workspace to the application directory.


```bash
cd $WORK_DIR/${APP_NAME}
cloudshell workspace $WORK_DIR/${APP_NAME}
```


## Develop with Cloud Code

Cloud Code reduces many tedious and repetitive steps a developer typically needs to execute for developing container based applications.

Cloud Code features can be accessed through the command palette by typing `Cmd+Shift+P` on Mac or `Ctrl+Shift+P` on Windows or ChromeOS, then typing `Cloud Code` to filter down to Cloud Code commands.

Alternatively, many of the most commonly used commands are available by clicking on the Cloud Code indicator in the status bar below the editor.

Finally, there are use-case specific icons on the left side of the navigator that take you directly to sections like the API or GKE Explorer.

<walkthrough-editor-spotlight spotlightId="cloud-code-k8s-explorer">
Click here to highlight the GKE explorer
</walkthrough-editor-spotlight>


## Local Development Loop

During development, it’s useful to work with your application against a local Kubernetes cluster like `minikube`. In this section, you’ll use the Cloud Code plugin to deploy your application to a local instance of minikube, then hot reload changes made in the code. 

Start minikube

In Cloud Shell IDE, click the word `minikube` in the status bar. In the prompt at the top of the screen, click on the `minikube` option, then click. `start`

**Wait for `minikube` to finish starting**. It takes 1-3 minutes. 

Be sure you’re using the minikube context by setting it on the config in your terminal.

```bash
kubectl config use-context minikube
```

### Run on Minikube

Once minikube is running, build and deploy the application with Cloud Code. Locate the Run on K8s command in your command pallet by:

1. Using the hotkey combination `cmd/ctrl+shift+p`
1. Type “`Cloud Code: Run on Kubernetes`” and select the option
1. Select `Kubernetes: Run/Debug - local` and confirm you want to use the current context (minikube) to run the app.

Once the deployment is complete, review the app by clicking on the URL provided in the output window. 

Change this line in the main.go file to a different output. When you save the file, notice the build and deploy automatically begin to redeploy the application to the cluster. 

Once completed, return to the tab with the application deployed and refresh the window to see the results updated. 

To stop the hot deploy process, find the stop button in the debug configuration.

<walkthrough-editor-spotlight spotlightId="debug-configuration">
Locate the debug configuration pane
</walkthrough-editor-spotlight>

Stopping the process not only detaches the process but also cleans up all the resources used on the cluster.

 
## Remote Debugging 

Cloud Code also simplifies developing for Kubernetes by integrating live debugging of applications running in Kubernetes clusters. For this section, you will deploy your application to a remote dev cluster and perform some simple live debugging. 

Cloud Code can utilize any Kubernetes cluster in your local contexts. For this example, you'll use the remote dev cluster.

Cloud Code understands remote vs. local deployment patterns. When you used minikube earlier, Cloud Code defaulted to using your local Docker build and store the image locally. Since this is a remote deployment the system will prompt you for a remote registry. 

Under the hood, Cloud Code is using skaffold to build and deploy. For the remote clusters, you’ll be prompted for which profile to use. The workshop is designed to use the [default] profile for local development. 

These prompts will occur only when there are no existing configurations found. To set or change configurations, switch to the debug view then select the settings icon next to the launch configurations dropdown.

First, start by switching to the dev cluster context with the command below


```bash
kubectl config use-context dev
```


This time you’ll choose `Cloud Code: Debug on Kubernetes` from the command pallet. 

1. Using the hotkey combination `cmd/ctrl+shift+p`
1. Type “`Cloud Code: Debug on Kubernetes`” and select the option
1. Select `Kubernetes: Run/Debug - dev` and confirm you want to use the current context (dev) to run the app.
1. If asked which image repo to use, choose the default value of `gcr.io/{project}` 
1. If asked which cluster to use, choose to use the current `dev` context.

To watch the progress be sure you’ve selected the Output window. The editor may have switched to debug view. 

Once the build and deployment complete, the output will provide a URL for viewing the deployed application.

Click the URL provided to see the application results.

Stopping the process by clicking the stop button in the debug console


## Return to the main workspace

When you're done modifying the application and reviewing the changes, return to the main workshop workspace by executing the following command.

Switch your editor's workspace to the application directory to prepare for the next lab. 


```bash
cd $BASE_DIR
cloudshell workspace $BASE_DIR/..
```


## Congratulations !!

<walkthrough-conclusion-trophy></walkthrough-conclusion-trophy>


You've reached the end of this lab.

After the next lecture, run the following command to launch the next lab.


```bash
teachme "${BASE_DIR}/docs/workshop/3.2-release-progression.md"
```

